super now like classes arrays are going
to be almost always instantiating using
the new keyword so for Strings we call
you don't have to use new with with
arrays it's going to be new most so
there's three notations for defining
arrays in Java and the first year is
just a simple creation of an array but
not specifying the values of the
governor in so this first syntax has the
variable Y which I'm assuming SM
declared earlier I want to put in that
64 bit box the addresses of an array I'm
now creating that array will consist of
three boxes of 32-bit Beach along with
the links tree and Java when you create
an array it will get a default value and
we'll see in the visualization what that
means and the other kind of notation or
said the second type of notation is to
say x equals new int and then here have
the actual value you want to put in
there by default so in this case we're
not explicitly stating the size of the
array but Java is able it's pretty smart
figures it out it says I you want an
array of size five and it puts these
default valid for try puts these values
then instead of the people value now
note that when you create an array on
Java
you always get a default value so if you
say new insulin million it's going to
make it's going to set aside a million
boxes and it's going to write a bunch of
zeros if it's all in so a little bit of
overhead associated with creating arrays
in Java all right so next up we have our
final and somewhat strange syntax this
one is just like the one above except we
don't do new int and what's sort of
funny about this is it only works when
you're also declaring a variable at the
same time so I say int brackets W that
allows me because I'm declaring right
now to instantiate without the new end
keyword why is it I don't know that's
need to do so if you like this notation
um be aware that you can't use it with
an already declared group so each of the
invitations there all do the same thing
right they create an array which has
some links and it has n boxes right
we're in Italy for those of you curious
about what's happening under the hood
you might imagine that an array is well
maybe 32 bits to the links plus K bits
per box
for a total of 32 plus K times in this
print array but it turns out that n
typical implementations it's actually a
little more have a little note in the
bottom right corner and that's the
reading and our optional textbook if
you're curious but not important for 61b
okay so this works through an example so
this is an example where I think that
you given what you saw on project zero
and in this lecture you could do every
step of this and draw a nice box and
pointer diagram except maybe this last
step here let's run through this example
and you can follow along and try and
guess what's going to happen now I'm
going to set two options I want this so
that things look nice and we don't get
weird we did this last time so make sure
that it looks more like a box and
pointer diagram I'm also going to enable
this option so that strings show their
true nature okay so if you're curious
what so if you're curious what these do
you can take them away and it looks
different but whatever this is just so
that the diagram it generates is
consistent with our box and pointer
notation okay
so the code begins in sprechen zie what
does it do well that's going to create a
box of how many bits 64 and what goes in
there and address remember there are
only nine things and Java types there
are the 8 primitive types and then
reference this to anything this is a
reference to an enter in so we get 64
bits and into that array we write a
bunch of zeros in which we call a null
for short okay so we have 64 bits here
all zeros now individual Iser we also at
this point give two more boxes x and y
which will be 64 bits but the visualizer
is designed by philip glow does not show
those boxes but you can imagine they're
there so we do x equals new int we get
our 64 bits box X and we fill it with 64
bits what goes most bit Y the address is
returned by the new function okay what
if the new function do well it's going
to go find someplace in memory for five
integers to live here they are so 32
bits for each one and X is going to
record the location in memory of this
whole box now notice that the visualizer
does not explicitly show the integer
that stores the links of an array so it
does nonetheless exist and we've done a
typical implementation
Java you can imagine as a little five up
here but not you
now when I say y equals x okay what does
this do well we have this box over here
that a 64 bits in it and of course the
thing you do whenever you say y equals x
is less copies the bits okay nothing
else so when we copy is a bit
well our visual metaphor says we should
draw an arrow to the same object and
there you have it now we're going to
take X and we're going to replace these
bits here with the address as returned
by this next call to nil okay so this is
again an array of size five and now X
gets the bits corresponding to the
address of X next we have y equals new
and three and so what that means is
we're going to throw away these bits and
replace them with the address of a new
array of size three okay so there's a
couple of interesting things here one of
them is that the visualizer is going to
make this disappear watch so it's gone
right and it kind of reorganize this
force but the array that's 1 2 3 4 5 it
is just gone forever we can never get it
back that's what I mean by an object is
anonymous so we lose the reference
that's just it we'll never see that
array again garbage collection ok next
step then the other thing that was
interesting is that we got an array of
size 3 and in this case it's all 0 y 0
well in Java when you create a narang
you always get default values much right
much like how with a class as we saw
before you get a bunch of default values
for every instance variable ok so these
are my default values which for integer
is here this is just for fun
so when I run this line I get an array
of size 0 so there are no boxes and an
INT presumably that says 0 somewhere and
so seeing just points of distance if I
want to get the links of an array I can
actually use dot links so you can think
of it as an array is like a class in a
way that has an instance variable kind
of that is called links and so when I
say in excel equals x dot links it
accesses this together the next it
accesses the secret five we cannot see
in a copy of those bits okay so I had a
five up here we copy them we have five
all right now we have creating a string
array okay so a challenge for you to
ponder how many boxes get made and I was
pretty easy and how many bits are in
each box zero just no strings no T's
name and you might have managed try and
guess what the default value will be
okay well I'll spoil it for you what you
get is six boxes and each one 64 bits
and each one can hold what okay I want
you to answer that question to yourself
awkwardly I don't care if your roommates
watching you whatever and you're having
earbuds on you're just going to say out
loud your answer and they'll think
you're weird
okay string references that's correct or
not correct if anymore you said so what
we got here now is six boxes 64 bits
each they hold string references and the
default value of all zeroes which is
null then we go to the box and we say we
go to box for of this array ok so s
points up this whole thing we say go 4
slots over and now are waiting and
looking at these 64 bits and we're going
to assign them to catch up what it catch
up
well this is we saw before that we can
instantiate strings with quotes so in
this case we basically called new
secretly without being a tease without
seeing it so what that will do is a new
string as creative if that dress is
returned in our arrow point okay how
about this line so I think that if you
came from 61 861 s or really any
programming course this I hope you can
figure out ok so trying to figure out
what's going to happen for this one okay
so Java what it will do is this is not a
value it's going to evaluate each of
these things it needs to compute this
difference so it's first going to go to
X 3 to 4 x 1 to 2 that's going to say 4
minus 2 is 2 so it'll go to s 2 and it
will set this equal to the address of a
new string Muppet next we'll create an
int array B now it's not very
interesting it's just the same as we've
done before but now I have this extra
little call systems array copy I'll be
explaining in just a moment so what
systems that array copy does though is
it copies from array B to array X and it
starts at position 0 of B and it copies
to position 3 of X and I find this
syntax a little hard to remember I
always have to read look it up every
semester but basically it come and it's
going to copy two of those numbers in
other words starting from 0 of be going
to slots over
these are the ones I want to copy I'm
going to go to this location and copy
them here after it on that you'll see
nine ten appear up there okay so that's
basic array okay
let's talk a little bit more about array
copy so actually the first question we
ask ourselves is why would we ever want
to make a copy of an array what's not
enough just to say for example y equals
x right this just says I'm copying the
address of an array from one variable to
another this is two references to the
same array similarly suppose we're
trying to write a non-destructive
array function that takes an array and
say squares each of its elements okay
one of you give that function an array
reference it gets an actual reference to
your original array okay so I have a
main you know financial tax software
dadadada square I don't why you're
squaring numbers in tax software
okay I give off the give my precious
array me to someone else to go do
squaring and they claim to be doing it
non-destructively they better have some
way to make a copy of it array otherwise
they're breaking my array okay it
doesn't non-destructive interview so
there's two ways to make it hoppy one is
do an item-by-item copy just write a
loop and while I is less than X dot
length Y of I equals XY now the
alternate approach is to use array copy
and this function takes five parameter
so when I see system dot array copy it
says copy from the array B starting at
index zero to the destination array X
starting at X s position three and by
the way copy two of this okay so in
slice notation if you know Python it
would be something like this right
as you've never seen slice notation to
operate so array copy what's the
advantage of using it versus the loop
well it's probably going to be faster
particularly for large arrays because
the Java interpreter is closer to the
hardware so it can take advantages
advantage of knowledge about how things
truly works that you as a Java
programmer cannot the other reason is
the code is a bit more compact and if
somebody knows what this means it can be
easier to read than looking at a loop
but one could also argue it's harder to
because you have to remember what all
these parameters do so I'll leave it to
your judgment which you think seems
easier dream